---
layout:     post
title:      "Kindness"
description: "Poems of growth"
date:       2020-07-07 0:10:00
author:     "Vansh"
permalink: /:title/
category: "Poems"
image: { feature: vansh.jpg }
---

#### - KINDNESS, YOU'RE WORTH IT

Hey everybody! I hope everyone's having a good day so far. Today's post is different than usual
respects since today I wont be posting an informative piece on resurrection or the Genesis or
anything like that. Right now, right here, I will be posting two poems written completely by yours
truly. This post is something that is going to take a lot of courage to write since I have never
been too comfortable sharing my poetry. But hey, first time for everything right?

***
***

For the first poem, I would like to issue a TRIGGER WARNING. If you believe you are not
in the best mind-set right now, or don’t want to read something negative, I suggest you skip the
first poem. I wrote this during a bad day. A day when i was tired to the bone. Tired of the world
around me, tired of the things I was doing, tired of myself.

## The Portrait

There's a portrait in my attic  
It's a window to my soul  
There's a portrait in my attic  
But it's not me anymore.

I smile wide in real life  
But in the portrait I'm all frowns  
I feel so alone, can't reach out for help  
I stand there helplessly as the real me drowns.

I stand in front of a mirror  
To confront my demon and end the pain  
But i only see my reflection looking back at me  
Taunting me to take the step, to do something inhumane.

I fight the demon as I fight myself  
I fight him because I want to live more  
But I feel losing and giving in  
And finally, I stop resisting, as I sink into the floor.

And then i stand up  
Tying a noose around my neck as the portrait starts burning up  
I silently apologize to everyone I know  
As I see the golden light, the roar in my ears turning up.

Now, as the picture crumbles to ashes  
I puff out my last breath  
And in my most final moments I know  
There's nothing as peaceful, yet just as selfish  
As being a murderer, delivering your own death.

***
***

Now for the second poem, I wrote very recently and I wrote it because I was feeling down. It is
about bad memories and the pain they cause and while it presents a pretty negative outlook,
for me, this poem is also about finally letting go of all that negativity, finally moving on and
welcoming new, positive experiences in my life without being influenced by the old ones. This
poem also acts as a constant reminder for me. A reminder to be kind, to myself and others. A
reminder not give up. A reminder to stay strong.

## The Stranger

A man lies dying in front of me  
He's a stranger but I know him  
I look at him and in pain he looks back  
His expression calm, but his eyes hiding something girm.

I settle him in my lap  
I cradle him with one arm  
"I'll save you", I whisper  
Letting him know I mean no harm.

But I choke him with my free hand  
Trying to end his pain  
Because sometimes things are beyond saving  
Sometimes, even existing is your bane.

As the man finally dies, I recognise him  
He is me, at least in part  
He is the pain I could never let go of  
He is the memories I had hidden in my heart.

I was so busy saving the good memories  
That in desperation I even let the bad ones in  
But today, by killing that part of myself  
I freed all my pain within.

Now I am a free man  
A part of my soul gone  
I've lost the pain I used to feel  
As I welcome a whole new dawn.

I'll live my life with a different formula now  
I've already let go of my past  
I take a long last look at the old me  
As I walk out to build something good that lasts.

***

These poems mean a lot to me personally. For me, they represent growth. It took a long time,
sure but in the end I grew to be kind and strong to myself and that's all I'm grateful about. I hope all of you reading this find the
strength to be as kind to yourself as you are to others because you're worth it

***
***

A few bits of information though:
+ If you liked the poems and want me to upload more of them later as well, do let me know.
+ And, be sure to check the blog out on the weekend. Something good is on its way. :)
