---
layout:     post
title:      "Disillusioned"
description: "A brief tour through Magic, Reality and Illusions, paired with a slight detour into Nihilism."
date:       2020-08-05 0:10:00
author:     "Vansh"
permalink: /:title/
category: "Articles"
image: { feature: Magic.jpg }
---

#### - You Wouldn't Believe It!


Magic has been one of my greatest fascinations since I don’t even remember when. On a good day, I might even openly claim I completely believe in it as well. Like today I chose to believe in magic – necromancy, to be specific – and that is how I brought this blog back from the dead. Okay but jokes apart, I’ve missed you guys. Excuse me for my unannounced absences, pinky promise to try and not do that again.

That sums up the introduction, don’t you think? Now, on to the main piece for today: Magic. This is a term all of us have come across multiple times in our lives. Be it in a movie, a book, or during a conversation, we have heard about magic, and it would be safe to assume most of us know what it really means. In its most basic form, I would define magic as any act which creates an illusion, or breaks one. Any gateway connecting the imaginary with reality is magic in its own right. Didn’t think humans could fly? Well, the Wright brothers will do some magic and prove you wrong. Don’t believe in ghosts? Please allow Stephen King to bind you with his words and make you a part of his illusion.

Now that we’ve established the meaning of magic, it would only be right to let you know where I’m going with this. So, I was thinking one day – about magic, of course – and it hit me, and I mean almost literally hit me in the face. Despite all my talk about magic, I don’t really know what reality and illusions mean anymore. The modern definition of magic has evolved to accommodate science, religion, and whatever else is left (not flat-earthers though), and that makes my conundrum even worse.
 
Now, the first issue when we ask “is this even real?” is that there is almost no way to validate whatever answer we get? This question is a rabbit hole which can throw you in places worse than wonderland. You start at this question, get an answer, feel dissatisfied with it, ask more questions, and get more answers, each subsequent answer somehow more incoherent and confusing than its predecessor.  This then goes on and on and on, and eventually starts eating up all the other things in your life; starting with your ability to perform other task and think well, and ending right after it has consumed what I like to call “The Glorious Illusion of Free Will” (more on this some other day). In the end, this question, if not asked properly, with the correct resources in store, will leave you at the bottom of the sea, right where we all bury something or the other, and then it’s barely a journey of 6 feet for you to join those secret treasures.

This brings me to a second, mini-issue. When you end up questioning your reality, there’s a chance that you’ll get the answer and your belief in your reality will be reinforced. But there is also a chance that you end up being convinced that you’re living in a fake world, created by you or someone else. This condition can be defined as Solipsism, and is only a few sharp turns away from Nihilism, the belief that nothing matters, life and loyalty are pointless, and there are no true purposes apart from perhaps causing destruction. The problem here, in case you still haven’t spotted it, is that believing in nothing and having absolutely no values is not really the best thing for a variety of reasons I won’t get into. I’m not saying I’m against nihilism or something, no. But, falling into a maze as intricate as nihilism is a very delicate task and if you’re thrown into it while you’re questioning your reality, the chances of things going very bad very soon are almost equal to the Earth being round. And when I say things can go bad, I mean they can go bad-bad.

“So Vansh, what does one even do? You have obviously forcefully pushed this question right inside our minds and now I am in the middle of falling down the rabbit hole you mentioned”, is what you might be thinking right now. To this, I would like to put forward the conclusion about this very question. In my very young, and almost unqualified, opinion, I believe the only correct answer that can be given when one is questioning their reality, is that it does not matter. No, I’m not talking about nihilism here, we’re done with that for some time. What I mean to say is there is no concrete way of knowing if this is reality or not, and this very dangerous question is probably the wrong one. It doesn’t matter if everything’s an illusion because there are far more pressing questions out there which have been unasked for a long time, and right now, the very moment you’re reading this, is the best moment to ask these questions.

Take a look at the world around us. Take a look at everything going on everywhere. The earth melting, society crumbling, humanity’s true spirit leaving its host bodies in a thousand different ways each and every day. Ask yourself why all of this is happening, what you can do to stop it, what ARE you doing to stop it. If you don’t ask these questions, then I beg you to at least wonder why I said that the answer to the initial question is pointless. The answer to that is pointless, because the two possible answers it has are that either everything is real, or that it’s an illusion, and none of these answers are good. If everything going on right now is fake, then one can only imagine how utterly terrible reality must be. But if I assume everything going on is real, it only brings me horror to realize how I’ve let my reality go to a state worse than hell.

Notice how I said “my reality”? This brings me to my next, and final point. I believe that whatever I believe is real, is real. And that does not necessarily mean that the same thing might be real for somebody else. All of us have a million different realities that we go through each day, and an equal number of illusions too, and all of them are valid realities and illusions. Everybody is entitled to their own realities, their own truth, and that is universal, but this stops being true when your reality involves taking away the rights or realities of someone else. As soon as your truth denies somebody their identity, your truth becomes invalid.

I believe I’ve said enough for now. I don’t think I can give this write-up a proper conclusion, I don’t really even want to. I just want all my readers to think about what you just read, think about the questions I asked you. I want you to think about what your reality is made up of, what truths are yours. And finally, I want you to think about magic.
