---
layout:     post
title:      "Sisyphus"
description: "A story about the profile picture"
date:       2020-07-04 0:10:00
author:     "Vansh"
permalink: /:title/
category: "Stories"
---

# THE GODS INSIDE US

Hi there! Welcome back to Myths and Muses! As promised, this post is dedicated to explaining
the meaning and the significance of my profile picture. I'll begin by letting you all know that the
man in the picture, rolling the boulder up a slope, was a Greek king by the name of Sisyphus.

But before we dive deeper into the legend of Sisyphus, I believe I should give a brief introduction
of all the major gods, deities and humans that we're going to be meeting in the post. This, I am
doing for the ones who are relatively new to Greek Mythology, have a problem remembering
names, or have had no link to Greek Mythology up until this point.

***

+ **Sisyphus**: Sisyphus was a king of Corinth and was most infamous for his cunning and
general trickery, which was so well advanced that he managed to cheat death not once, but
twice! But the reason he had to do so was that he, due to his hubris and constant violation of
xenia (I shall explain both the terms a little further on), had offended a god, and not just any god.
Sisyphus had managed to offend Zeus himself.

+ **Zeus**: Zeus is the youngest of the original six Olympian gods, the offspring of Rhea. Some
sources claim he is the oldest but that's just a matter of perspective, I believe. Zeus is the
Greek god of thunder and skies, and even more importantly, he is the god of law, hospitality
and, balance, and holds the title of the King of all Gods. Because of his status as the god of
hospitality and balance, there were two things Zeus did not tolerate: the violation of *xenia*,
which was the sacred rule of being hospitable towards your guests and family, and *hubris*,
which excessive pride or self-confidence. If any mortal was found having any of these two
qualities, they had to face Zeus' wrath. Sisyphus, sadly, had both of these, so it was just a matter
of time when Zeus came for him.

+ **Thanatos**: The Ancient Greeks believed that concepts like time, old age, rage, death, love,
et cetera had physical and metaphysical embodiments. They can also be called minor gods and
while their name has "minor" in them, they are believed to have existed long before the major 12
Olympians did. Just one of these very powerful minor deities was Thanatos, the god of death,
or Death himself. Thanatos can be compared to a modern-time grim reaper, whose job was to
collect souls and take them to the Underworld, the Greek afterlife.

+ **Hades**: Hades, the eldest brother of Zeus, is the god of the dead and Underworld.
People often confuse his roles with the ones of his subordinate, Thanatos, but while Thanatos
controlled the flow of dead souls passing on into the afterlife, Hades was god and king of the
afterlife itself. All the souls that Thanatos collected were kept in different regions of Hades'
realm.

+ **Ares**: Ares is the Greek god of war, and while that sounds like a mighty title, Ares has
often shown himself to be a coward. But the one thing that has been made clear about Ares
throughout history is that he understands war and he has made a very clear point that war has
rules of its own and they demand to be respected in order to maintain the natural order. Ares
was the god that Greeks called upon when heading off to war. The Spartans, the mighty warriors
of Sparta on whom the movie 300 is based, are also known to have had a bronze statue of Ares
chained to the floor, as a way of prayer that the spirit of War always blessed them with victory in
battle.

+ **Persephone**: Persephone is the daughter of Zeus and the wife of Hades. I know all of you
are probably horrified to learn that Hades’ wife was Persephone, his niece, but this was Ancient
Greece, and more importantly, these were gods. They did not have the reservations against
incest like we do in our present society. Persephone was the goddess of the Underworld,
springtime and flowers, and used to spend half her time in the Underworld, while the rest was
spent on the surface world of the mortals.

+ **Hermes**: Hermes was the god of a lot of things. And I mean A LOT. He was the god of
messengers, heralds, thieves, travellers, merchants, commerce, trade, orators and a lot of other
things. He was also the messenger of the gods. I suppose, in modern terms, Hermes could be
accurately compared to a minimum wage worker. Sometimes, Hermes also escorted some
very special souls to the Underworld himself, mostly upon orders from his father, Zeus, thus
strengthening my previous point.

***

That concludes our introductions. Now, onto the good stuff.

Sisyphus, in all his glory and hubris, had done many wrong things over his lifetime, but one of
the worst things that he did was when he impersonated the King of the Gods and claimed to
be the New Zeus. While that didn't end with Zeus killing him, it did help him get higher in Zeus'
hit-list. Finally, after a few more major transgressions, and a lot of minor ones, Zeus decided that
enough is enough and that Sisyphus must be taken off the face of the Earth once, and for all.

Despite his royal blood and his kingly status, his life had been too wicked, too shameless, and
hence, Zeus ruled that he shall not have the dignity of being escorted to the Underworld by
Hermes. Instead, Death himself was sent to shackle and escort him.

Soon, Thanatos was inside Sisyphus' bedroom but Sisyphus, like most evil people, was a light
sleeper, and even the silent movement of Death was enough to wake Sisyphus up. That led to
a confrontation between the two which ended with Thanatos chaining himself up with his own
unbreakable shackles.

The way that happened was that during the confrontation between the kind and Death, Death
started boasting about how no one can escape his shackles once they are in them. This was
followed by Sisyphus challenging him and Death, not free from a little bit of hubris himself,
demonstrated the power of his shackles by putting them on himself.

The moment that was done, Sisyphus chained Death up further and threw him away in a closet,
knowing that the shackles will prevent Thanatos from using his powers to break free, and so, the
world was without death.

For some time, everything was great. People had stopped dying and there is nothing better
than watching our loved ones live on. The gods didn't notice this at first, Zeus assumed that the
situation with Sisyphus had been taken care of and all was well now. It was only when Ares, the
god of war, complained that War was losing its essence because no people were dying anymore.
Everybody just kept on fighting and fighting and without death, war was pointless since no side
could be declared a winner.

This made Zeus realise that something fishy was going on and so, he sent his right hand man,
our favourite minimum wage worker, Hermes, to investigate. Hermes was a smart guy, so he
immediately went to Corinth and soon Thanatos was freed.

But Sisyphus was a smart guy. He knew he couldn’t escape Death twice so he told his wife that
he was going to die soon and when he did, he instructed his wife that when he died, he should
receive no funeral rites and rituals. Instead, his body should be thrown on the road like that of
a dog and no sacrifices shall be performed, no prayers should be done. Reluctantly, she agreed
and the matter ended there.

Inevitably, Thanatos came and Sisyphus was taken away to the Underworld, while his body in the
mortal world was left to rot. His body's pathetic condition was soon mirrored on his soul and
by the time Thanatos dropped Sisyphus at the throne room of Underworld, his condition was so
bad that you wouldn't have been able to guess he was a king.

Thanatos left and in the throne room sat Persephone, alone. He asked her for an audience with
Hades but was told that he wasn't available. Then, he started working his words on the kind
Queen Persephone. He brought to her attention that his wife had discarded his body and had
left it to rot and that was not an insult to Sisyphus but to the realm of Death itself. Then Sisyphus
suggested to her that maybe the way to get back to his wife for this disrespect is to make him
alive again and then as a live man, Sisyphus could extract his revenge from his wife slowly.
Obviously, the kind Queen agreed, since Sisyphus pleaded a valid case.

In the absence of Hades, Persephone held the power, and Sisyphus had won her over with his
words and as a result, he was soon released from the Underworld, alive again. Needless to say,
the other gods were furious once they realised what Persephone had done in the kindness of
her heart, but no one could do anything about it now since a god can never undo another god's
actions.

Sisyphus, obviously, stayed out of the gods' way this time and live a full, happy life, only to die
naturally as an old king.

This time when he entered the Underworld though, he was greeted by Hades himself. Hades is a
god with a temper, especially when it comes to humans as vile as Sisyphus, so naturally, Hades
had thought of a very special and unique eternal punishment for the old king.

Hades told Sisyphus that he was impressed by his intellect and wit since he had cheated death
twice. As a result of this magnificent feat, Hades provided Sisyphus with his offer. All he had to
do was roll a single boulder up a hill and as soon as he can get to boulder to the top of the hill,
Sisyphus shall be a free man again.

Sisyphus, still a man driven by hubris, naturally accepted and immediately went to work. The first
time, he was almost at the top but then the boulder slipped and he had to start over again. The

same happened a second, third, and fourth time. Still under the impression that Hades had made
a sincere offer, Sisyphus kept trying to roll his boulder up the hill, and it is said that the old king is
so blinded by his hubris that he is still trying to roll the boulder up the hill.

Now, personally I don’t think Sisyphus actually existed. Neither did the gods or the demigods or
any of the stuff from the myths and folklore. And yet, I am more interested in them than I am in
anything else, and so are millions and millions of people. All the people, dead and alive. I believe I
have an answer for this behaviour of us humans.

You see, all the myths, according to me, are more than just stories and tales. They are mirrors.
Myths are the mirrors our ancients have left for us to look at ourselves in. Every last piece of
folklore reflect humanity and the multitude of different tendencies and patterns we have. These
stories call out every one of us and they highlight the qualities that make humans different than
anything that has ever come into being.

Let's take the story we just discussed as an example. The myth of Sisyphus is a metaphor for
real life. In real life, every single one of us has Sisyphus inside us. "How?", one may ask. So let's
begin with the obvious thing here. None of us want to die. Even when we joke about dying, we
mostly do not mean that. Humans have a natural tendency to want to live and throughout history,
man has gone to great lengths to make sure they do not die. Sometimes, they've even gone to a
point where they are alive, but not humans anymore, but that's a topic for some other day.

I am a living embodiment of Sisyphus because I believe I can succeed in life, I believe I can
succeed in the task that I am currently invested in and even when I fail, I tell myself that I will
eventually succeed and then I keep trying again and again. I am Sisyphus, and my life is boulder.

But I'm not special, of course not. Everyone reading this also holds a little Sisyphus inside them.
A little guy who is ready to keep trying and never give up. A guy who will justify for you, even the
worst things that you did. Similarly, we have a Zeus inside us, the part of us that seeks balance
in life and in the life of those around us. The Ares inside us, who ultimately represents the whole
universe's ultimate goal, Entropy. Chaos, in simpler terms. The very suppressed part of us, that
simply craves chaos, an utter lack of order. This is the part that most of us are so horrified of,
that we don’t even acknowledge it's existence. Hoping that if we deny it, it will go away. Knowing,
that it wont.

As I'm approaching the end of this blog, I want to say that myths from around the world might

be man made and fictional, but the patterns and the different realities they display, they are very
real and grow more and more relevant every passing day.

Finally, I'll end by saying that all the stories we hear around us are not just words stringed
together. They are a mirror to our soul and the greatest way to learn is through stories.

**_"The human species thinks in metaphors and learns through stories." --Mary Catherine
Bateson_**

Thank you for reading.

***

Now that the post has ended, I would like to add this as an author's note and I just want to ask
all of you guys for suggestions on the next blog, and comments on this one. I hope you enjoyed
reading.
